I know you've been avoiding typing
your function parameters for
most of the examples so far, but how hard
would it be, or how hard is it in general
to define types for
everything in a next TypeScript code base?
>> It's not hard at all,
I can walk through some examples of that,
there's really only two examples.
There's one for components and
one for the APIs, so
API is easy cuz you don't have to make
them they're the same every time.
For a component it will look something
like we find it a good component.
So I'll give you a good example
would be a good example here.
I don't know let's say you
made a button I guess.
All right, so,
If you had a Button component here,
which probably would be,
I don't know why I did that,
which probably would be a client
component because it's a button and
it's like clicking and stuff like that or
maybe not, I don't know.
You'll have to be the judge of that.
So if you had a button here, you wanted
to like make some props typically the way
that I do it is I'll make an interface.
So, interface button, and then you can put
whatever props you want,
whether it's one click,
or not, on click something variance and,
it's a string, or something like that.
Whatever you want to put here and then
I'll use in this case something called FC
which stands for functional component.
I'll bring that in that takes
a generic which will be my interface
called Button like that and
now it's type checks.
Now if I try to do structure here, you can
see I have variants and it's ready to go.
This is just freaking out because
I'm not returning anything.
Yeah, that's pretty much how I do it for
the most cases is just
make your interface,
if there is a functional component,
use functional component pass that in.
And there you go, and then when you
bring this into another component,
if you hover over it in JSX, it'll tell
you the props that you're missing.
So that's one way to do it other people,
what they'll do is,
they won't do that instead
they'll just do it here.
They'll be like, Button, they'll do it
that way, I think that gives you the same
results but you're not telling React about
it, I don't know what trade offs are.
But I always do the other way.
Because I think the functional component
gives you access to all the other stuff
that React gives you like children
props and things like that, I think.
So that's how I do it and then for
the API stuff it's basically free.
I mean you look at the example that's
generated here it's always going to
be next API requests and this one's always
gonna be next response and then you're
able to put a type here for the type
of response you're gonna send back.
But it's really not that necessary
because there's nothing consuming
this function that is going to have access
to the return value of the response.
Because like you're crossing
the network barrier so
it's not like there's a component over
here that knows what this looks like.
So there are libraries out there that
are surfacing that allow you to have
type safety between your back end and
your front end without a build
step in between but this ain't it.
So it kind of doesn't really matter here,
this is only for
like composition I'm wrapping this
function in a higher order function.
So I need to know the return value is and
things like that,
unless about some
component consuming this.
>> Signaling back to that
one button component so
that's not inside of the app directory,
would you still need to put the use client
at the very top to make this one
specifically a client component?
>> Yeah, it doesn't matter where it is.
>> Okay.
>> It's eventually going to get
important that app directory and
you want it to be a client component,
you got to put use client.
Yeah, but right now,
it's not ever gonna be used
by the app anywhere because I
never imported it anywhere.
At the end of the day, if you think about
it, everything has to be imported into
a page at some point in order for
it to show up on the screen.
Because we can't just render a Button
we can't render a component by itself.
Doesn't matter how far that leaf is,
it eventually has to attach to a branch.
And that branch always leads to a page.
So if you wanna put it on the screen,
just like a regular React,
if you have a component and it's not
imported somewhere that's eventually
part of the router, it's never gonna
show up, it's never gonna get imported.
So you can import it into lib and
that lib can import in another lib but
if that final lib isn't imported
in a component somewhere that's
impoted from a page it's never going
to show up so that's how it works.